Now let's start with a short introduction to Sparkle.
We will look at the definition and, uh, basic syntech elements.
So Sparkle is a W three C standard for querying R D F data.
And not only it is issued in the 1.1 version
in 2013.
And you can see here the direct link to the specification.
Currently, there is a working group at the W three C,
which prepare a new release, sparkle 1.2 with, uh,
much more functionality, but we will work with 1.1. And, uh,
this is the version which is implemented in the actual usable, um,
um, R D F stores. This R Q L. So the,
uh, lost three, um, characters in sparkl. They stands,
stands for R D F query language.
But since a variety of other data can be handled or can be transformed to
R D F, it can also be applied to other data structures.
So the base data structure, you can see here the R D F, uh, data structure.
You have a subject and an object, and, uh,
they are connected with a predicate, with a,
a directed edge. And the object might be also a literal data.
Then you have another kind of object.
And the another kind of predicate and the predicates we divided in
relations, if they are between, um, two nodes, um,
two resource notes, uh, and we call them attributes,
if they, um, um,
are conne connect a subject with literal data. Uh, so they,
uh, give us information about, um, characteristics of that, uh, subject,
not relations, but, uh, characteristics. So, um, in the end,
you can sparkle use also on relational data when you transform it to R D F,
uh, also on XML or J data, or even on table data,
as I already showed you.
So sparkle is thus a powerful and extremely flexible language
for business analytics. So then go, uh,
back or forward. The P in Spark.
QL stands for protocol.
Protocol is a set of rules which enables the exchange of queries and
results between the sparkle client and the server.
So even our application could not work without using that protocol.
And the first letter vs is only a recourse of acronym. So,
uh, when you, um, decipher sparkle, then it, uh,
sounds like sparkle port protocol and R D F query language.
So Thess is, uh, simply, um, um,
added to have a more, uh,
speakable name and it's a little bit, uh,
resembling the SQLs, the structured query language,
which we have for relational databases.
So how, uh,
the basic sparkle syntax looks like you have,
uh, first, uh, the Prophix definitions, which you already know,
uh, from the total syntax,
but they are a little bit different in totally remember you have first to use
the ad symbol, then the keyword prophix,
and then comes the prophix itself, which, uh, um, which ends with the column.
And then after a space,
you have the U R I for what this PROPHIX stands for.
Uh, here the ad, um,
character is omitted and you have only the keyword graphics
and the, uh, other parts are similar in turtle. Um,
it depends a little bit on the tools you use,
but in turtle you have also after each perfect definition, definition,
a.in here in, uh, spark ql, it's not necessary.
And then, uh, you have, uh, two so-called clauses,
the select C clause and the wear C clause and the select clause,
enate enumerates, the, um, output variables,
which you want to get as a, a result,
as an output of the query. And the,
let's call the main part or the main complicated part of the query,
uh, is the wear clause, uh, which is,
which uses the keyword wear,
and where the graph pageant, which is, uh,
given in total syntax, is enclosed in, uh,
curly braces. So let's go on here.
We define the, uh,
reference standards and vocabularies and the colors. You can see here,
they are the same as we used in the, um,
in the schema or in the graph diagram at slide four. Yeah,
you have this red, uh, for schema do org.
You have the yellow or orange for provenance.
This is the name of this standard vocabulary FO four
four vocabulary. And, uh, our, um, individual, our,
um, proprietary it cut, um,
graphics for the specific, um,
for the specific classes, uh,
properties and individuals we use this. Um,
you see here in the select line that, uh,
the variables are listed,
each variable starts with a question mark. And afterwards,
afterwards, uh, different, uh, yeah, characters can be used, no,
um, special characters. And, uh,
the variable must not start with a number, but you can,
afterwards, you can use also numbers if it's, uh, necessary. So,
and there is also no restriction about the
number of variables you can in the end, uh, query, uh,
any number of variables and not all of them have to be returned.
So there might be variables in the graph, no, in the, yeah, in the graph clause,
in the wear clause, uh, which are not, um, output.
And we will see such examples, um, in upcoming slides. Hmm.
So here the list of the output variables,
the specification of the query pattern. So let's start with some simple, uh,
examples. If you, um,
come along with a new knowledge graph and you want to analyze this
graph,
you want to imagine you don't have such a nice schema
as I provided for you on slide number four, uh,
and you want to analyze this non, um,
or, or this unknown, uh, knowledge graph, then you can do such simple,
um, analyzing queries. So we start with, um,
the first that we want to get out all classes,
which we have in this, um, in,
in this knowledge graph. Yeah. So, uh, to, um,
not to have, uh, too much or not to use too much place for the prefixes,
I, um, I restricted it, it here to this one basic, uh,
prefix. And I didn't, uh, repeat them afterwards.
So in the end, you have here five different queries,
and for all these queries, you have to, um,
declare first the pre,
but I didn't repeat it because it's the same in for all examples. Yeah,
the, so this, oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. I didn't want to that.
Uh, okay, let's use,
let's use this. So,
okay, we will start with, with this, um,
first example, um, select the,
the variable we call class. Yeah. The name of the variable, uh,
is not, um, not essential.
So you can name it as you want.
You can also put a question mark and use an X,
but it's better to use, uh, a word which, uh,
can be understood. So, and what we are searching for,
we are searching in our graph for all patterns,
which are of the way, there is something our variable class,
and this is an owl class. Yeah. Is of type owl class.
So wait, that's not right.
Uh,
So now I want to, uh,
leave the presentation mode to get this
query
In
Memory. And then we go to our, um,
sparkle endpoint on the Java server and
we put the query here.
So, uh, we use the right yeah, IT card.
Yeah, here we see which, um,
here you can also see which database we are querying.
We can see that there are no syntactical errors in that query.
And uh, we want to get a table output here,
and then we can run the query.
And here you have, uh, the output.
So we get 13 entries, 30 outputs. Uh,
so we see that we have 13 classes,
and I suggest the number of all that boxes,
which we had on slide number four.
But what you get are the UR MRIs, um, of that classes.
And that might be not very good readable. So we will, uh,
come to other methods that we get, uh, as output,
not the URIs of the classes itself, but of, uh, for instance,
their labels or things like that. So, okay,
let's try another one. Yeah, let's, let's take the next,
we want to get all relations we have here.
So let's put it here again.
So we have 18 relations.
The relations are all object properties in the graph, and, uh,
they are here listed, um, as, um, yeah,
again with their UIs. Now you can see here the related,
which, uh, is from SCOs core. And you see here,
um, the relation agent or the relation provider from schema.org.
Um, what may be interesting,
I told you that this application we built, um, roundabout eight years ago,
and, uh, that time the, uh, H T T P S uh,
protocol was not as prominent as today. Therefore, uh,
at that time, schema.org even uses, uh,
the HT t P protocol Nowadays. It may, uh, might be, uh,
better to use HT T P ss. Okay?
So maybe we, uh,
take this last, for example,
what we have here. Oh,
there is an error.
Interesting. Our class,
ah, I D F S is not defined. Okay, this, this is true.
Let's add it.
So you see, you get here some help
And now it's fine. Uh,
because we use here the R D F S subclass off, and now we can run the query.
Uh, oh, let's first think about what we are querying.
So we are searching for all classes and subclasses. So classes are,
um, all, um, items which are,
um, represented as in our class.
And we are searching also for the subclass of that classes.
So what you get is a table you see here, um,
only that classes, which are subclasses of others. Yeah.
Or which have subclasses. Uh, it's better to say, uh, that way.
So we have here the class agent. And the class agent, as we saw in the diagram,
they have three, um, subclasses organization person enroll,
and the class entity has two subclasses document.
And asset qualitative value also have two subclasses,
priority CRI criteria, criticality, and yeah,
service property. I think this was not shown in my diagram.
Uh, but here, this,
you also could see service category has three sub
classes, subject category, catalog, category, and lifecycle stage.
Okay?
So this was the first examples and the
end of that part.